# UNH_PS1PS2_SM_DedalusResults_J25
This project contains processed data and modeled results from observations collected by the University of New Hampshire (UNH) Coastal Processes Lab in a field experiment in January 2025. Please see [(Marry, 2026)](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.19260240) for a full description of that experiment and for the raw data files. The field experiment included two pressure profiling instruments known as Pressure Sticks (PS) and a optical backscatter instrument, the SediMeter (SM) from Lindorm Inc. The PS's measure the wave-induced pressure through the water column and into the sediment bed. The SediMeter measures the location of the sediment-water interface. Here, these field observations are compared to a numerical solution of the Biot Consolidation equations for pressure within the sediment bed. The set of partial differential equations of the problem are solved by spectral methods using an open-source computational framework, called [the Dedalus Project](https://dedalus-project.org/). The field observations are used as the ground truth to assess the accuracy of the model. 

This dataset is presented in the manuscript, "Vertical Propagation of Wave-Induced Pressure Within Nearshore Sediment Beds: Field Observations and a Numerical Solution" (Marry & Foster, XXXX) which has been submitted to the Journal of Geophysical Research: Oceans in 2026. 

## Dataset files
A description of each data file is given below:

### Pressure Stick Data
1. UNH_PS1data_PS2data_Jan25_10min.csv 

    This file contains data from the Pressure Stick version 1 (PS1) and the Pressure Stick version 2a (PSv2a), where the values have been calculated for 10-minute segments of data throughout the full deployment time (January 18th 2025 8:40:00 – January 20th 2025 12:00:00). Used to plot Figure 4 in (Marry & Foster, XXXX).

    - chunk_mean = mean datetime value for each 10-minute segment for PS1 ([308x1] vector)
    - chunk_mean_2 = mean datetime value for each 10-minute segment for PSv2a ([308x1] vector)
    - h = average water depth for each 10-minute segment for PS1 (m, [308x1] vector)
    - h_2 = average water depth for each 10-minute segment for PSv2a (m, [308x1] vector)
    - Hsig = significant wave height for each 10-minute segment for PS1 (m, [308x1] vector)
    - Hsig_2 = significant wave height for each 10-minute segment for PSv2a (m, [308x1] vector)
    - WaveHeights = average wave height for each 10-minute segment for PS1 (m, [308x1] vector)
    - WaveHeights_2 = average wave height for each 10-minute segment for PSv2a (m, [308x1] vector)
    - WavePeriods = peak wave period for each 10-minute segment for PS1 (s, [308x1] vector)
    - WavePeriods_2 = peak wave period for each 10-minute segment for PSv2a (s, [308x1] vector)

2. UNH_PS1data_PS2data_Jan25_Spectra.csv  

    This file contains data from the spectral analysis of the Pressure Stick version 1 (PS1) and the Pressure Stick version 2a (PSv2a) data for a twenty-minute time segment (January 19th 2025 15:00:00 – 15:20:00). Used to plot Figure 8 in (Marry & Foster, XXXX).

    - freq = frequency range for the spectral analysis for PS1 (Hz, [656x1] vector)
    - Sjs = spectral energy density of pressure for all sensors for PS1 with 32 degrees of freedom (4 band averaging and 4 ensemble averaging (m^2/Hz, [656x8] vector)
    - spectraDiff_coh = spectral attenuation for all pressure sensors relative to the free-stream pressure sensor (top-most sensor in the water) for PS1. Only values for which the spectral results are coherent to the 95% confidence level are included ([656x8] vector)
    - Phixy_coh = phase for all pressure sensors relative to the free-stream pressure sensor (top-most sensor in the water) for PS1. Only values for which the spectral results are coherent to the 95% confidence level are included (degrees, [656x8] vector)
    - incident_frequency = incident frequency value for PS1 (Hz, [1x1])
    - CEOFs_ifreqs = various multiples of the incident frequency value for PS1, specifically 0.5, 1, 1.5, 2, 3, 10, and 4 times the incident frequency (Hz, [1x7])
    - freq2 = frequency range for the spectral analysis for PSv2a (Hz, [553x1] vector)
    - Sjs2 = spectral energy density of pressure for all sensors for PSv2a with 32 degrees of freedom (4 band averaging and 4 ensemble averaging (m^2/Hz, [553x12] vector)
    - spectraDiff_coh2 = spectral attenuation for all pressure sensors relative to the free-stream pressure sensor (top-most sensor in the water) for PSv2a. Only values for which the spectral results are coherent to the 95% confidence level are included ([553x12] vector)
    - Phixy_coh2 = phase for all pressure sensors relative to the free-stream pressure sensor (top-most sensor in the water) for PSv2a. Only values for which the spectral results are coherent to the 95% confidence level are included (degrees, [553x12] vector)
    - incident_frequency2 = incident frequency value for PSv2a (Hz, [1x1])
    - CEOFs_ifreqs2 = various multiples of the incident frequency value for PSv2a, specifically 0.5, 1, 1.5, 2, 3, 10, and 4 times the incident frequency (Hz, [1x7])

### Dedalus (Model) Data    
1. UNH_DedalusPSY_Jan25_Raw_TCX.csv (Data files for the full modeled solution from Dedalus using both Pressure Sticks divided by tidal cycle for each instrument and in compressed files)

    These files contain the numerical solution for modeled pressure within the sediment bed using the Dedalus Project and forced with the Pressure Sticks data for the full deployment time (January 18th 2025 8:43:00 – January 20th 2025 10:37:00). The data is divided up by Pressure Stick forcing (Pressure Stick 1 or Pressure Stick version 2a) and by tidal cycle. In the file name above, the ‘Y’ indicates the Pressure Stick and will be ‘1’ (Pressure Stick 1) or ‘2’ (Pressure Stick version 2a). The ‘X’ indicates the tidal cycle and will be either ‘0’, ‘1’, ‘2’, or ‘3’, where the increasing tidal cycle number indicates further along in time. Note due to large file sizes, the ‘.csv’ files are compressed. 

    - dt = datetime values, listed as ‘date/month/year hour:minute:second’
    - dn = datenum values
    - Pd = modeled pressure head (in meters), or modeled pressure converted to meters, for each pressure sensor elevation. There should be 8 columns for the files forced with Pressure Stick 1 and 12 columns for the files forced by Pressure Stick version 2a, for the different number of sensors in each instrument. If a column within the matrix contains ‘NaNs’ then that at that time that column is for a pressure sensor location that is in the water column and is thus not modeled with the numerical solution. 
    - z_0 = the initial pressure sensor elevations as recorded during installation (at the beginning of tidal cycle 0 (TC0)), in cm. There should be 8 columns for the files forced with Pressure Stick 1 and 12 columns for the files forced with Pressure Stick version 2a, for the different number of sensors in each instrument. Positive values indicate the pressure sensor is above the sediment-water interface (i.e, in the water/air) and negative values indicate the pressure sensor is below the sediment-water interface (in the sediment) at the initial installation. 

2. UNH_Dedalusdata_Jan25_Spectra.csv 

    This file contains data from the spectral analysis of the numerical model for pressure within the sediment bed (from utilizing the Dedalus Project) for a twenty-minute time segment (January 19th 2025 15:00:00 – 15:20:00). Both Pressure Stick version 1 (PS1) and the Pressure Stick version 2a (PSv2a) data are used to force the numerical solution. If a column within the matrix of any of the variables is completely ‘NaNs’ then that columns is for a pressure sensor location that is in the water column and is thus not modeled with the numerical solution. Used to plot Figure 9 in (Marry & Foster, XXXX).

    - freqD = frequency range for the spectral analysis for PS1 (Hz, [656x1] vector)
    - SjsD = spectral energy density of modeled pressure for all sensor elevations for PS1 with 32 degrees of freedom (4 band averaging and 4 ensemble averaging (m^2/Hz, [656x8] vector)
    - spectraDiff_cohD = spectral attenuation of modeled pressure for all sensor elevations relative to the near-bed pressure forcing for PS1. Only values for which the spectral results are coherent to the 95% confidence level are included ([656x8] vector)
    - Phixy_cohD = phase of modeled pressure for all sensor elevations relative to the near-bed pressure forcing for PS1. Only values for which the spectral results are coherent to the 95% confidence level are included (degrees, [656x8] vector)
    - incident_frequencyD = incident frequency value of modeled pressure for PS1 (Hz, [1x1])
    - CEOFs_ifreqsD = various multiples of the incident frequency value of the modeled pressure for PS1, specifically 0.5, 1, 1.5, 2, 3, 10, and 4 times the incident frequency (Hz, [1x7])
    - freqD2 = frequency range for the spectral analysis for PSv2a (Hz, [553x1] vector)
    - SjsD2 = spectral energy density of modeled pressure for all sensor elevations for PSv2a with 32 degrees of freedom (4 band averaging and 4 ensemble averaging (m^2/Hz, [553x12] vector)
    - spectraDiff_cohD2 = spectral attenuation of modeled pressure for all sensor elevations relative to the near-bed pressure forcing for PSv2a. Only values for which the spectral results are coherent to the 95% confidence level are included ([553x12] vector)
    - Phixy_cohD2 = phase of modeled pressure for all sensor elevations relative to the near-bed pressure forcing for PSv2a. Only values for which the spectral results are coherent to the 95% confidence level are included (degrees, [553x12] vector)
    - incident_frequencyD2 = incident frequency value of modeled pressure for PSv2a (Hz, [1x1])
    - CEOFs_ifreqsD2 = various multiples of the incident frequency value of the modeled pressure for PSv2a, specifically 0.5, 1, 1.5, 2, 3, 10, and 4 times the incident frequency (Hz, [1x7])

### Combined Pressure Stick and Dedalus (Model) Data
1. UNH_PS1data_Jan25_2min_Compare2Dedalus.csv and UNH_PS2data_Jan25_2min_Compare2Dedalus.csv 

    These files contain data from the Pressure Stick version 1 (PS1), the Pressure Stick version 2a (PSv2a) and the pressure results from the numerical model (using the Dedalus Project) for a two-minute time series of data (January 19th 2025 15:10:00 – 15:12:00). Also contains root mean square and root mean square error results between the observations and the model for a twenty-minute time series of data (January 19th 2025 15:00:00 – 15:20:00). Used to plot Figures 6 and 7 in (Marry & Foster, XXXX).

    - dt_PS = datetime for the two-minute time series for PS1 ([2103x1] vector)
    - Pd_PS = pressure for all sensors for the two-minute time series for PS1 (m, [2103x8] vector)
    - Pd = modeled pressure for all sensors for the two-minute time series for PS1 (m, [2103x8] vector)
    - percent_diff = Percent difference between the pressure observations and modeled pressure for all sensors for the two-minute time series for PS1 (%, [2103x8] vector)
    - sensorselev = sensor elevations for the two-minute time series for PS1 (m, [1x8] vector)
    - RMS_Pd_PS = root mean square of pressure for all sensors for the twenty-minute time series for PS1 (m, [1x8] vector)
    - RMS_Pd = root mean square of modeled pressure for all sensors for the twenty-minute time series for PS1 (m, [1x8] vector)
    - RMSE = root mean square error of observed and modeled pressure for all sensors for the twenty-minute time series for PS1 (m, [1x8] vector)

    - dt_PS2 = datetime for the two-minute time series for PSv2a ([1773x1] vector)
    - Pd_PS2 = pressure for all sensors for the two-minute time series for PSv2a (m, [1773x12] vector)
    - Pd2 = modeled pressure for all sensors for the two-minute time series for PSv2a (m, [1773x12] vector)
    - percent_diff2 = Percent difference between the pressure observations and modeled pressure for all sensors for the two-minute time series for PSv2a (%, [1773x12] vector)
    - sensorselev2 = sensor elevations for the two-minute time series for PSv2a (m, [1x12] vector)
    - RMS_Pd_PS2 = root mean square of pressure for all sensors for the twenty-minute time series for PSv2a (m, [1x12] vector)
    - RMS_Pd2 = root mean square of modeled pressure for all sensors for the twenty-minute time series for PSv2a (m, [1x12] vector)
    - RMSE2 = root mean square error of observed and modeled pressure for all sensors for the twenty-minute time series for PSv2a (m, [1x12] vector)
    
2. UNH_PS1data_PS2data_Dedalus_Jan25_CEOF_20min.csv 

    This file contains data from the Complex Empirical Orthogonal analysis (CEOF) of the Pressure Stick version 1 (PS1) data, the Pressure Stick version 2a (PSv2a) data, and the numerical model for pressure within the sediment bed (from utilizing the Dedalus Project) for a twenty-minute time segment (January 19th 2025 15:00:00 – 15:20:00). Both Pressure Stick version 1 (PS1) and the Pressure Stick version 2a (PSv2a) data are used to force the numerical solution. If a row within the matrix of any of the variables is completely ‘NaNs’ then that columns is for a pressure sensor location that is in the water column and is thus not modeled with the numerical solution. The CEOF is calculated at five frequencies of interest where the frequencies are selected as multiples of the incident frequency, specifically 0.5, 1.0, 2.0, 3.0, and 4.0 times the incident frequency. Used to plot Figure 10 in (Marry & Foster, XXXX).

    - Ampl_CEOF_PS = CEOF amplitude relative to the near-bed pressure sensor for PS1 for the five frequencies of interest ([8x5] vector)
    - Ampl_CEOF_PS2 = CEOF amplitude relative to the near-bed pressure sensor for PSv2a for the five frequencies of interest ([11x5] vector)
    - Ampl_CEOF_D = CEOF amplitude relative to the near-bed pressure sensor for the numerical model forced with the PS1 data for the five frequencies of interest ([8x5] vector)
    - Ampl_CEOF_D2 = CEOF amplitude relative to the near-bed pressure sensor for the numerical model forced with the PSv2a data for the five frequencies of interest ([12x5] vector)
    - Phase_CEOF_PS = CEOF phase relative to the near-bed pressure sensor for PS1 for the five frequencies of interest (degrees, [8x5] vector)
    - Phase_CEOF_PS2 = CEOF phase relative to the near-bed pressure sensor for PSv2a for the five frequencies of interest (degrees, [11x5] vector)
    - Phase_CEOF_D = CEOF phase relative to the near-bed pressure sensor for the numerical model forced with the PS1 data for the five frequencies of interest (degrees, [8x5] vector)
    - Phase_CEOF_D2 = CEOF phase relative to the near-bed pressure sensor for the numerical model forced with the PSv2a data for the five frequencies of interest (degrees, [12x5] vector)
    - sensorselev = Sensor elevations for PS1 (cm, [1x8] vector)
    - sensorselev2 = Sensor elevations for PSv2a (cm, [1x12] vector)
    - CEOFs_ifreqs = Frequencies of interest selected for the CEOF analysis, specifically, 0.5, 1.0, 2.0, 3.0, and 4.0 times the incident frequency (Hz, [1x5] vector)
    - percentVar_CEOF = Percent variance of the CEOF at each frequency of interest for PS1 (%, [1x5] vector)
    - percentVar_CEOF2 = Percent variance of the CEOF at each frequency of interest for PSv2a (%, [1x5] vector)

3. UNH_PS1data_PS2data_Dedalus_Jan25_CEOF_TidalCycleRanges.csv 

    This file contains data from the Complex Empirical Orthogonal analysis (CEOF) of the Pressure Stick version 1 (PS1) data, the Pressure Stick version 2a (PSv2a) data, and the numerical model for pressure within the sediment bed (from utilizing the Dedalus Project) for the full deployment time (tidal cycles (TCs) 1 – 3, January 18th 2025 23:00:00 – January 20th 2025 7:00:00). Both Pressure Stick version 1 (PS1) and the Pressure Stick version 2a (PSv2a) data are used to force the numerical solution. CEOFs are calculated for every 20-minute segment of data and only the incident frequency CEOF is shown. The data is separated by the phase of the tidal cycle (or the water depth) into six groups; swash rising tide (SRT), middle (mid) rising tide (MRT), rising high tide (RHT), falling high tide (FHT), middle falling tide (MFT), and swash falling tide (SFT). Used to plot Figure 11 in (Marry & Foster, XXXX).

    This file has a long list of variables since each of the six tidal segments have PS1, PSv2a, and numerical data associated with it, but the idea is repetitive in the naming structure so here will list the general variable names.
    - time_sec1_XX = time in seconds from the start of each tidal cycle. ‘XX’ will be either ‘TC1’, TC2’, or ‘TC3’ indicating which tidal cycle with the tidal cycle number increasing with time in the total deployment (s, [22x1], [21x1], [22x1] vectors)
    - h1_XX = water depth (or pressure head) for each tidal cycle. ‘XX’ will be either ‘TC1’, TC2’, or ‘TC3’ indicating which tidal cycle with the tidal cycle number increasing with time in the total deployment (s, [22x1], [21x1], [22x1] vectors)
    - sensorselevD_XXXY = pressure sensor elevations relative to the sediment-water interface for every 20-minute segment of data for the numerical data. Positive values indicate above the sediment-water interface (i.e, in the water) and negative values indicate below the sediment-water interface (in the sediment). ‘XXX’ indicates the tidal phase and will be either ‘SRT’, ‘MRT’, ‘RHT’, ‘FHT’, ‘MFT’, or ‘SFT’. Rows are completely ‘NaN’s when the 20-minute segment is at low tide (i.e. when no useable data is recorded) or when the 20-minute segment is not in the desired tidal phase indicated by the variable name. ‘Y’ indicates which instrument data is used to force the numerical model with ‘1’ indicating Pressure Stick 1 and ‘2’ indicating Pressure Stick version 2a. (cm, [65x8], [65x12] vectors)
    - Ampl_CEOFD_XXXY = CEOF amplitude relative to the near-bed pressure sensor for the numerical model forced with the data from the Pressure Sticks for every 20-minutes and separated by tidal phase. Only CEOFs for the incident frequency are included. ‘XXX’ indicates the tidal phase and will be either ‘SRT’, ‘MRT’, ‘RHT’, ‘FHT’, ‘MFT’, or ‘SFT’. Columns are completely ‘NaN’s when the 20-minute segment is at low tide (i.e. when no useable data is recorded) or when the 20-minute segment is not in the desired tidal phase indicated by the variable name. ‘Y’ indicates which instrument data is used to force the numerical model with ‘1’ indicating Pressure Stick 1 and ‘2’ indicating Pressure Stick version 2a. ([8x65],[12x65] vector)
    - Phase_CEOFD_XXXY = CEOF phase relative to the near-bed pressure sensor for the numerical model forced with the data from the Pressure Sticks for every 20-minutes and separated by tidal phase. Only CEOFs for the incident frequency are included. ‘XXX’ indicates the tidal phase and will be either ‘SRT’, ‘MRT’, ‘RHT’, ‘FHT’, ‘MFT’, or ‘SFT’. Columns are completely ‘NaN’s when the 20-minute segment is at low tide (i.e. when no useable data is recorded) or when the 20-minute segment is not in the desired tidal phase indicated by the variable name. ‘Y’ indicates which instrument data is used to force the numerical model with ‘1’ indicating Pressure Stick 1 and ‘2’ indicating Pressure Stick version 2a. (degrees, [8x65],[12x65] vector)
    - sensorselev_XXXY = pressure sensor elevations relative to the sediment-water interface for every 20-minute segment of data for the Pressure Sticks data. Positive values indicate above the sediment-water interface (i.e, in the water) and negative values indicate below the sediment-water interface (in the sediment). ‘XXX’ indicates the tidal phase and will be either ‘SRT’, ‘MRT’, ‘RHT’, ‘FHT’, ‘MFT’, or ‘SFT’. Rows are completely ‘NaN’s when the 20-minute segment is at low tide (i.e. when no useable data is recorded) or when the 20-minute segment is not in the desired tidal phase indicated by the variable name. ‘Y’ indicates which instrument data with ‘1’ indicating Pressure Stick 1 and ‘2’ indicating Pressure Stick version 2a. (cm, [65x8], [65x11] vectors)
    - Ampl_CEOF_XXXY = CEOF amplitude relative to the near-bed pressure sensor for the Pressure Sticks data for every 20-minutes and separated by tidal phase. Only CEOFs for the incident frequency are included. ‘XXX’ indicates the tidal phase and will be either ‘SRT’, ‘MRT’, ‘RHT’, ‘FHT’, ‘MFT’, or ‘SFT’. Columns are completely ‘NaN’s when the 20-minute segment is at low tide (i.e. when no useable data is recorded) or when the 20-minute segment is not in the desired tidal phase indicated by the variable name. ‘Y’ indicates which instrument data with ‘1’ indicating Pressure Stick 1 and ‘2’ indicating Pressure Stick version 2a. ([8x65],[11x65] vector)
    - Phase_CEOF_XXXY = CEOF phase relative to the near-bed pressure sensor for the Pressure Sticks data for every 20-minutes and separated by tidal phase. Only CEOFs for the incident frequency are included. ‘XXX’ indicates the tidal phase and will be either ‘SRT’, ‘MRT’, ‘RHT’, ‘FHT’, ‘MFT’, or ‘SFT’. Columns are completely ‘NaN’s when the 20-minute segment is at low tide (i.e. when no useable data is recorded) or when the 20-minute segment is not in the desired tidal phase indicated by the variable name. ‘Y’ indicates which instrument data with ‘1’ indicating Pressure Stick 1 and ‘2’ indicating Pressure Stick version 2a. (degrees, [8x65],[11x65] vector)
    - Hsig_XXXY = significant wave height for every 20-minute segment and separated by tidal phase. ‘XXX’ indicates the tidal phase and will be either ‘SRT’, ‘MRT’, ‘RHT’, ‘FHT’, ‘MFT’, or ‘SFT’. Rows are completely ‘NaN’s when the 20-minute segment is at low tide (i.e. when no useable data is recorded) or when the 20-minute segment is not in the desired tidal phase indicated by the variable name. ‘Y’ indicates which instrument data with ‘1’ indicating Pressure Stick 1 and ‘2’ indicating Pressure Stick version 2a. (m, [65x8], [65x11] vectors)
    - h_XXXY = water depth for every 20-minute segment and separated by tidal phase. ‘XXX’ indicates the tidal phase and will be either ‘SRT’, ‘MRT’, ‘RHT’, ‘FHT’, ‘MFT’, or ‘SFT’. Rows are completely ‘NaN’s when the 20-minute segment is at low tide (i.e. when no useable data is recorded) or when the 20-minute segment is not in the desired tidal phase indicated by the variable name. ‘Y’ indicates which instrument data with ‘1’ indicating Pressure Stick 1 and ‘2’ indicating Pressure Stick version 2a. (m, [65x8], [65x11] vectors)

4. UNH_PS1data_PS2data_Dedalus_Jan25_CEOF_3fi_TidalCycleRanges.csv 

    This file contains data from the Complex Empirical Orthogonal analysis (CEOF) of the Pressure Stick version 1 (PS1) data, the Pressure Stick version 2a (PSv2a) data, and the numerical model for pressure within the sediment bed (from utilizing the Dedalus Project) for the full deployment time (tidal cycles (TCs) 1 – 3, January 18th 2025 23:00:00 – January 20th 2025 7:00:00). Both Pressure Stick version 1 (PS1) and the Pressure Stick version 2a (PSv2a) data are used to force the numerical solution. CEOFs are calculated for every 20-minute segment of data and only the CEOF at the second harmonic frequency, which is 3 times the incident frequency, is shown. The data is separated by the phase of the tidal cycle (or the water depth) into six groups; swash rising tide (SRT), middle (mid) rising tide (MRT), rising high tide (RHT), falling high tide (FHT), middle falling tide (MFT), and swash falling tide (SFT). Used to plot Figure 12 in (Marry & Foster, XXXX).

    This file has a long list of variables since each of the six tidal segments have PS1, PSv2a, and numerical data associated with it, but the idea is repetitive in the naming structure so here will list the general variable names.
    - time_sec1_XX = time in seconds from the start of each tidal cycle. ‘XX’ will be either ‘TC1’, TC2’, or ‘TC3’ indicating which tidal cycle with the tidal cycle number increasing with time in the total deployment (s, [22x1], [21x1], [22x1] vectors)
    - h1_XX = water depth (or pressure head) for each tidal cycle. ‘XX’ will be either ‘TC1’, TC2’, or ‘TC3’ indicating which tidal cycle with the tidal cycle number increasing with time in the total deployment (s, [22x1], [21x1], [22x1] vectors)
    - sensorselevD_XXXY = pressure sensor elevations relative to the sediment-water interface for every 20-minute segment of data for the numerical data. Positive values indicate above the sediment-water interface (i.e, in the water) and negative values indicate below the sediment-water interface (in the sediment). ‘XXX’ indicates the tidal phase and will be either ‘SRT’, ‘MRT’, ‘RHT’, ‘FHT’, ‘MFT’, or ‘SFT’. Rows are completely ‘NaN’s when the 20-minute segment is at low tide (i.e. when no useable data is recorded) or when the 20-minute segment is not in the desired tidal phase indicated by the variable name. ‘Y’ indicates which instrument data is used to force the numerical model with ‘1’ indicating Pressure Stick 1 and ‘2’ indicating Pressure Stick version 2a. (cm, [65x8], [65x12] vectors)
    - Ampl_CEOFD_XXXY = CEOF amplitude relative to the near-bed pressure sensor for the numerical model forced with the data from the Pressure Sticks for every 20-minutes and separated by tidal phase. Only CEOFs for the second harmonic frequency are included. ‘XXX’ indicates the tidal phase and will be either ‘SRT’, ‘MRT’, ‘RHT’, ‘FHT’, ‘MFT’, or ‘SFT’. Columns are completely ‘NaN’s when the 20-minute segment is at low tide (i.e. when no useable data is recorded) or when the 20-minute segment is not in the desired tidal phase indicated by the variable name. ‘Y’ indicates which instrument data is used to force the numerical model with ‘1’ indicating Pressure Stick 1 and ‘2’ indicating Pressure Stick version 2a. ([8x65],[12x65] vector)
    - Phase_CEOFD_XXXY = CEOF phase relative to the near-bed pressure sensor for the numerical model forced with the data from the Pressure Sticks for every 20-minutes and separated by tidal phase. Only CEOFs for the second harmonic frequency are included. ‘XXX’ indicates the tidal phase and will be either ‘SRT’, ‘MRT’, ‘RHT’, ‘FHT’, ‘MFT’, or ‘SFT’. Columns are completely ‘NaN’s when the 20-minute segment is at low tide (i.e. when no useable data is recorded) or when the 20-minute segment is not in the desired tidal phase indicated by the variable name. ‘Y’ indicates which instrument data is used to force the numerical model with ‘1’ indicating Pressure Stick 1 and ‘2’ indicating Pressure Stick version 2a. (degrees, [8x65],[12x65] vector)
    - sensorselev_XXXY = pressure sensor elevations relative to the sediment-water interface for every 20-minute segment of data for the Pressure Sticks data. Positive values indicate above the sediment-water interface (i.e, in the water) and negative values indicate below the sediment-water interface (in the sediment). ‘XXX’ indicates the tidal phase and will be either ‘SRT’, ‘MRT’, ‘RHT’, ‘FHT’, ‘MFT’, or ‘SFT’. Rows are completely ‘NaN’s when the 20-minute segment is at low tide (i.e. when no useable data is recorded) or when the 20-minute segment is not in the desired tidal phase indicated by the variable name. ‘Y’ indicates which instrument data with ‘1’ indicating Pressure Stick 1 and ‘2’ indicating Pressure Stick version 2a. (cm, [65x8], [65x11] vectors)
    - Ampl_CEOF_XXXY = CEOF amplitude relative to the near-bed pressure sensor for the Pressure Sticks data for every 20-minutes and separated by tidal phase. Only CEOFs for the second harmonic frequency are included. ‘XXX’ indicates the tidal phase and will be either ‘SRT’, ‘MRT’, ‘RHT’, ‘FHT’, ‘MFT’, or ‘SFT’. Columns are completely ‘NaN’s when the 20-minute segment is at low tide (i.e. when no useable data is recorded) or when the 20-minute segment is not in the desired tidal phase indicated by the variable name. ‘Y’ indicates which instrument data with ‘1’ indicating Pressure Stick 1 and ‘2’ indicating Pressure Stick version 2a. ([8x65],[11x65] vector)
    - Phase_CEOF_XXXY = CEOF phase relative to the near-bed pressure sensor for the Pressure Sticks data for every 20-minutes and separated by tidal phase. Only CEOFs for the second harmonic frequency are included. ‘XXX’ indicates the tidal phase and will be either ‘SRT’, ‘MRT’, ‘RHT’, ‘FHT’, ‘MFT’, or ‘SFT’. Columns are completely ‘NaN’s when the 20-minute segment is at low tide (i.e. when no useable data is recorded) or when the 20-minute segment is not in the desired tidal phase indicated by the variable name. ‘Y’ indicates which instrument data with ‘1’ indicating Pressure Stick 1 and ‘2’ indicating Pressure Stick version 2a. (degrees, [8x65],[11x65] vector)
    - Hsig_XXXY = significant wave height for every 20-minute segment and separated by tidal phase. ‘XXX’ indicates the tidal phase and will be either ‘SRT’, ‘MRT’, ‘RHT’, ‘FHT’, ‘MFT’, or ‘SFT’. Rows are completely ‘NaN’s when the 20-minute segment is at low tide (i.e. when no useable data is recorded) or when the 20-minute segment is not in the desired tidal phase indicated by the variable name. ‘Y’ indicates which instrument data with ‘1’ indicating Pressure Stick 1 and ‘2’ indicating Pressure Stick version 2a. (m, [65x8], [65x11] vectors)
    - h_XXXY = water depth for every 20-minute segment and separated by tidal phase. ‘XXX’ indicates the tidal phase and will be either ‘SRT’, ‘MRT’, ‘RHT’, ‘FHT’, ‘MFT’, or ‘SFT’. Rows are completely ‘NaN’s when the 20-minute segment is at low tide (i.e. when no useable data is recorded) or when the 20-minute segment is not in the desired tidal phase indicated by the variable name. ‘Y’ indicates which instrument data with ‘1’ indicating Pressure Stick 1 and ‘2’ indicating Pressure Stick version 2a. (m, [65x8], [65x11] vectors)

### Dedalus (Model) Python Codes    
1. Dedalus_PS_20minSections_Jan25_PubCode.py

    This software file numerically solves the boundary value problem for pressure within the sediment bed using the Dedalus Project and forces with field observations. This code separates the data into 20 minutes segments to help with computational times when utilizing Dedalus and to account for changes in water depth due to tidal ranges. Then all of the 20 minute sections from an experiment can be combined into one data file.

2. func_Dedalus_InputSedProp.py

    This software function file is what is actually called to utilize Dedalus to solve the boundary value problem for a specific 20 minute segment of data.

3. nondim_flow_pressure_HTh.py

    This software function file calculates various hydrodynamic parameters needed to nondimensionalize the pressure record before solving the set of differential equations.
